>> Could there be an
increase in the use of tarot?
If so, why now?
What is driving this surge of
interest from truth seekers?
This is Gaia News.
Tarot cards, once
believed by some people
to be evil or dangerous
can now be seen everywhere.
Tarot has gone mainstream.
Christian Dior offers the
designs for decor, dinnerware
and fashion but tarot and
oracle decks for divination
are the best sellers.
US Game Systems, a leading
publisher of tarot cards
tells the "Financial
Times" they've
had to double their print
runs in the past year
because they sell out so fast.
It's not just tarot, "The
New York Times" reports data
from Yelp showing searches
for supernatural readings more
than doubled in April.
Why are so many people
turning to these methods now?
Mitch Horowitz,
author of "The Seekers
Guide to The Secret Teachings
Of All Ages" explains.
>> People are interested because
there's truth in these things.
They discover truth
in these things
just like they discover truth
in therapy and in philosophy
and in spirituality.
So people gravitate to
things where there's
some sense of discovery.
>> Throughout history, people
have sought their own path
to self discovery and healing
especially during times
of uncertainty.
>> It's important to keep
in mind that the occult
and the esoteric are evergreens.
They're a permanent fixture of
our culture and our society.
There does seem to be
an uptick of interest
during periods of
crisis, for example,
during the Civil War there
was an uptick of interest
in spiritualism.
The same was true during World
War I. During World War II,
sales of the Ouija
board doubled.
So when people are
anxious, they seek
to avail themselves of
insight whether it's
spiritual or therapeutic
or occult in nature.
>> When some people
hear the word occult,
they think something
evil or satanic.
The truth is far different.
>> Occult is a term derived from
Latin that just means secret
or hidden.
It was a term that came into
use during the Renaissance
to refer to the philosophies of
the ancient world, the mystery
traditions of the ancient
world, Rome, Greece, Egypt.
So it was just a
way of referring
to hidden or mysterious
philosophies that
were being rediscovered
during the Renaissance.
There's no sinister
connotation to the term occult.
>> The act of tarot reading
is the ultimate do it yourself
entry into the
esoteric teachings.
Some believe there is a
form of channeled energy
from the cards.
>> I perform tarot readings
myself mostly in private and I
ask myself the question,
is there anything here,
or is this just a Rorschach?
Is this just a random draw?
And I think there's
a possibility
that certain divinitory
pictogramatic tools like tarot
or the i Ching,
they may represent
a kind of frozen
snapshot in time
that gives us a sense
of everything that's
going on all around
us at a given moment
if one accepts that
time itself, linear time
is really just an illusion.
We've been able to prove that
to ourselves in various ways
and hence tarot seems
to give us a broader
perspective on what's going on
than we normally have access
to.
>> The real meaning of
occult is secret or hidden,
but these methods are no
longer secret or hidden.
In times of need,
feel free to use
whatever tools of divination
or truth seeking work for you.
And as Mitch Horowitz says, tap
into this universal symbolic
language.
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.